the fifth book of Moses called
the fifth book of Moses called Deuteronomy these are the words which
Deuteronomy these are the words which
Deuteronomy these are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel on this side
Moses spoke to all Israel on this side
Moses spoke to all Israel on this side of the Jordan in the wilderness in the
of the Jordan in the wilderness in the
of the Jordan in the wilderness in the plane of assets oof between Paran TOEFL
plane of assets oof between Paran TOEFL
plane of assets oof between Paran TOEFL Laban Hazira and DISA hab it is 11 days
Laban Hazira and DISA hab it is 11 days
Laban Hazira and DISA hab it is 11 days journey from her ed by way of Mount Seir
journey from her ed by way of Mount Seir
journey from her ed by way of Mount Seir to Kadesh Barnea
to Kadesh Barnea
to Kadesh Barnea now it came to pass in the fortieth year
now it came to pass in the fortieth year
now it came to pass in the fortieth year in the eleventh month on the first play
in the eleventh month on the first play
in the eleventh month on the first play of the month that Moses spoke to the
of the month that Moses spoke to the
of the month that Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that
children of Israel according to all that
children of Israel according to all that the Lord had given him as Commandments
the Lord had given him as Commandments
the Lord had given him as Commandments to them after he had killed Sihon king
to them after he had killed Sihon king
to them after he had killed Sihon king of the amorite s-- who dwelt in heshbon
of the amorite s-- who dwelt in heshbon
of the amorite s-- who dwelt in heshbon and ugh
and ugh
and ugh king of bation who dwelt at Ashtaroth in
king of bation who dwelt at Ashtaroth in
king of bation who dwelt at Ashtaroth in Adria on this side of the Jordan in the
Adria on this side of the Jordan in the
Adria on this side of the Jordan in the land of Moab Moses began to explain this
land of Moab Moses began to explain this
land of Moab Moses began to explain this law the Lord our God spoke to us in
law the Lord our God spoke to us in
law the Lord our God spoke to us in Horan saying you have dwelt long enough
Horan saying you have dwelt long enough
Horan saying you have dwelt long enough at this mountain turn and take your
at this mountain turn and take your
at this mountain turn and take your journey and go to the mountains of the
journey and go to the mountains of the
journey and go to the mountains of the amorite s' to all the neighboring places
amorite s' to all the neighboring places
amorite s' to all the neighboring places in the plain in the mountains and in the
in the plain in the mountains and in the
in the plain in the mountains and in the lowland in the south and on the Seacoast
lowland in the south and on the Seacoast
lowland in the south and on the Seacoast the land of the canaanites and to
the land of the canaanites and to
the land of the canaanites and to Lebanon as far as the Great River the
Lebanon as far as the Great River the
Lebanon as far as the Great River the river Euphrates see I have set the land
river Euphrates see I have set the land
river Euphrates see I have set the land before you go in and possess the land
before you go in and possess the land
before you go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to your father's
which the Lord swore to your father's
which the Lord swore to your father's labor ahem Isaac and Jacob to give to
labor ahem Isaac and Jacob to give to
labor ahem Isaac and Jacob to give to them and their descendants after them
them and their descendants after them
them and their descendants after them and I spoke to you at that time saying I
and I spoke to you at that time saying I
and I spoke to you at that time saying I alone am NOT able to bear you the Lord
alone am NOT able to bear you the Lord
alone am NOT able to bear you the Lord your God has multiplied you and here you
your God has multiplied you and here you
your God has multiplied you and here you are today as the stars of heaven and
are today as the stars of heaven and
are today as the stars of heaven and multitude they the Lord God of your
multitude they the Lord God of your
multitude they the Lord God of your father's make you a thousand times more
father's make you a thousand times more
father's make you a thousand times more numerous than you are and bless you as
numerous than you are and bless you as
numerous than you are and bless you as he has promised you how can I alone
he has promised you how can I alone
he has promised you how can I alone they're your problems and your burdens
they're your problems and your burdens
they're your problems and your burdens and your complaints choose wise
and your complaints choose wise
and your complaints choose wise understanding and knowledgeable men from
understanding and knowledgeable men from
understanding and knowledgeable men from among your tribes and I will make them
among your tribes and I will make them
among your tribes and I will make them heads over you and you answered me and
heads over you and you answered me and
heads over you and you answered me and said the thing which you have told us to
said the thing which you have told us to
said the thing which you have told us to do is good so I took the heads of your
do is good so I took the heads of your
do is good so I took the heads of your tribes wise and knowledgeable men and
tribes wise and knowledgeable men and
tribes wise and knowledgeable men and made them heads over you
made them heads over you
made them heads over you leaders of thousands leaders of hundreds
leaders of thousands leaders of hundreds
leaders of thousands leaders of hundreds leaders of 50s leaders of tens and
leaders of 50s leaders of tens and
leaders of 50s leaders of tens and officers for your tribes then I
officers for your tribes then I
officers for your tribes then I commanded your judges at that time
commanded your judges at that time
commanded your judges at that time saying here the cases between your
saying here the cases between your
saying here the cases between your brethren and judge righteously between a
brethren and judge righteously between a
brethren and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the stranger who
man and his brother or the stranger who
man and his brother or the stranger who is with him you shall not show
is with him you shall not show
is with him you shall not show partiality and judgment you shall hear
partiality and judgment you shall hear
partiality and judgment you shall hear the small as well as the great you shall
the small as well as the great you shall
the small as well as the great you shall not be afraid in any man's presence for
not be afraid in any man's presence for
not be afraid in any man's presence for the judgement is gods
case that is too hard for you bring to
case that is too hard for you bring to me and I will hear it and I commanded
me and I will hear it and I commanded
me and I will hear it and I commanded you at that time all the things which
you at that time all the things which
you at that time all the things which you should do so we departed from Horeb
you should do so we departed from Horeb
you should do so we departed from Horeb and went through all that great and
and went through all that great and
and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw on the
terrible wilderness which you saw on the
terrible wilderness which you saw on the way to the mountains of the amorite s--
way to the mountains of the amorite s--
way to the mountains of the amorite s-- as the Lord our God had commanded us and
as the Lord our God had commanded us and
as the Lord our God had commanded us and we came to Kadesh Barnea and I said to
we came to Kadesh Barnea and I said to
we came to Kadesh Barnea and I said to you you have come to the mountains of
you you have come to the mountains of
you you have come to the mountains of the amorite switch the Lord our God is
the amorite switch the Lord our God is
the amorite switch the Lord our God is giving us look the Lord your God has set
giving us look the Lord your God has set
giving us look the Lord your God has set the land before you
the land before you
the land before you [Music]
[Music]
[Music] go up and possess it as the Lord God of
go up and possess it as the Lord God of
go up and possess it as the Lord God of your father's has spoken to you and not
your father's has spoken to you and not
your father's has spoken to you and not fear or be discouraged and every one of
fear or be discouraged and every one of
fear or be discouraged and every one of you came near to me and said let us send
you came near to me and said let us send
you came near to me and said let us send men before us and let them search out
men before us and let them search out
men before us and let them search out the land for us and bring back word to
the land for us and bring back word to
the land for us and bring back word to us of the way by which we should go up
us of the way by which we should go up
us of the way by which we should go up and of the cities into which we shall
and of the cities into which we shall
and of the cities into which we shall come the plan pleased me well so I took
come the plan pleased me well so I took
come the plan pleased me well so I took 12 of your men one man from each tribe
12 of your men one man from each tribe
12 of your men one man from each tribe and they departed and went up into the
and they departed and went up into the
and they departed and went up into the mountains and came to the valley of
mountains and came to the valley of
mountains and came to the valley of Eshcol and spied it out they also took
Eshcol and spied it out they also took
Eshcol and spied it out they also took some of the fruit of the land in their
some of the fruit of the land in their
some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us and they
hands and brought it down to us and they
hands and brought it down to us and they brought back word to us saying it is a
brought back word to us saying it is a
brought back word to us saying it is a good land which the Lord our God is
good land which the Lord our God is
good land which the Lord our God is giving us nevertheless you would not go
giving us nevertheless you would not go
giving us nevertheless you would not go up but rebelled against the command of
up but rebelled against the command of
up but rebelled against the command of the Lord your God and you complained in
the Lord your God and you complained in
the Lord your God and you complained in your tents and said because the Lord
your tents and said because the Lord
your tents and said because the Lord hates us he has brought us out of the
hates us he has brought us out of the
hates us he has brought us out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the
land of Egypt to deliver us into the
land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the amorite stew destroy us
hand of the amorite stew destroy us
hand of the amorite stew destroy us where can we go up our brethren have
where can we go up our brethren have
where can we go up our brethren have discouraged our hearts saying the people
discouraged our hearts saying the people
discouraged our hearts saying the people are greater and taller than me the
are greater and taller than me the
are greater and taller than me the cities are great and fortified up to
cities are great and fortified up to
cities are great and fortified up to heaven
heaven
heaven moreover we have seen the suns of the
moreover we have seen the suns of the
moreover we have seen the suns of the Anakim there then I said to you do not
Anakim there then I said to you do not
Anakim there then I said to you do not be terrified or afraid of them Lord your
be terrified or afraid of them Lord your
be terrified or afraid of them Lord your God who goes before you he will fight
God who goes before you he will fight
God who goes before you he will fight for you according to all he did for you
for you according to all he did for you
for you according to all he did for you in Egypt before your eyes and in the
in Egypt before your eyes and in the
in Egypt before your eyes and in the wilderness where you saw how the Lord
wilderness where you saw how the Lord
wilderness where you saw how the Lord your God carried you as a man carries
your God carried you as a man carries
your God carried you as a man carries his son in all the way that you went
his son in all the way that you went
his son in all the way that you went until you came to this place yet for all
until you came to this place yet for all
until you came to this place yet for all that you did not believe the Lord your
that you did not believe the Lord your
that you did not believe the Lord your God who went in the way before you to
God who went in the way before you to
God who went in the way before you to search out a place for you to pitch your
search out a place for you to pitch your
search out a place for you to pitch your tents to show you the way you should go
tents to show you the way you should go
tents to show you the way you should go in the fire by night and in the cloud by
in the fire by night and in the cloud by
in the fire by night and in the cloud by day and the Lord heard the sound of your
day and the Lord heard the sound of your
day and the Lord heard the sound of your words and it was angry and took an oath
words and it was angry and took an oath
words and it was angry and took an oath saying surely not one of these men of
saying surely not one of these men of
saying surely not one of these men of this evil generation shall see that good
this evil generation shall see that good
this evil generation shall see that good land of which I swore to give to your
land of which I swore to give to your
land of which I swore to give to your father's except Caleb the son of
father's except Caleb the son of
father's except Caleb the son of Jephunneh he shall see it and to him and
Jephunneh he shall see it and to him and
Jephunneh he shall see it and to him and his children I am giving the land on
his children I am giving the land on
his children I am giving the land on which he walked because he wholly
which he walked because he wholly
which he walked because he wholly followed the Lord the Lord was also
followed the Lord the Lord was also
followed the Lord the Lord was also angry with me for your sakes
angry with me for your sakes
angry with me for your sakes saying even you shall not go in there
saying even you shall not go in there
saying even you shall not go in there Joshua the son of nun who stands before
Joshua the son of nun who stands before
Joshua the son of nun who stands before you he shall go in there encourage him
you he shall go in there encourage him
you he shall go in there encourage him he shall cause Israel to inherit it
he shall cause Israel to inherit it
he shall cause Israel to inherit it moreover your little ones and your
moreover your little ones and your
moreover your little ones and your children you say will be victims who
children you say will be victims who
children you say will be victims who today have no knowledge of good and evil
today have no knowledge of good and evil
today have no knowledge of good and evil they shall go in there to them I will
they shall go in there to them I will
they shall go in there to them I will give it and they shall possess it but as
give it and they shall possess it but as
give it and they shall possess it but as for you turn and take your journey into
for you turn and take your journey into
for you turn and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea
the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea
the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea and you answered and said to me we have
and you answered and said to me we have
and you answered and said to me we have sinned against the Lord we will go up
sinned against the Lord we will go up
sinned against the Lord we will go up and fight just as the Lord our God
and fight just as the Lord our God
and fight just as the Lord our God commanded us and when every one of you
commanded us and when every one of you
commanded us and when every one of you they girded on his weapons of war you
they girded on his weapons of war you
they girded on his weapons of war you were ready to go up into the mountain
were ready to go up into the mountain
were ready to go up into the mountain and the Lord said to me tell them do not
and the Lord said to me tell them do not
and the Lord said to me tell them do not go up nor fight or I am NOT a mother
go up nor fight or I am NOT a mother
go up nor fight or I am NOT a mother lest you be defeated
lest you be defeated
lest you be defeated before you are enemies
before you are enemies
before you are enemies so I spoke to you yet you would not
so I spoke to you yet you would not
so I spoke to you yet you would not listen but rebelled against the command
listen but rebelled against the command
listen but rebelled against the command of the Lord and presumptuously went up
of the Lord and presumptuously went up
of the Lord and presumptuously went up into the mountain and the amorite suit
into the mountain and the amorite suit
into the mountain and the amorite suit welt in that mountain came out against
welt in that mountain came out against
welt in that mountain came out against you and chased you as bees do and drove
you and chased you as bees do and drove
you and chased you as bees do and drove you back from seer to hormone then you
you back from seer to hormone then you
you back from seer to hormone then you returned and wept before the Lord but
returned and wept before the Lord but
returned and wept before the Lord but the Lord would not listen to your voice
the Lord would not listen to your voice
the Lord would not listen to your voice nor give ear to you so you remained in
nor give ear to you so you remained in
nor give ear to you so you remained in Kadish many days according to the days
Kadish many days according to the days
Kadish many days according to the days that you spent there
that you spent there
that you spent there [Music]